In this lesson.
We'll expand on the concept of pointing domain names through controlling the DNS records at a separate
provider.
You'll learn how a Cloudflare free account can be used for DNS and also for the most affordable domain
registration.
By the end of this video, you'll understand the power of Cloudflare as a separate DNS provider, as
well as one of the best domain registrars.
Now, a different setup is, and a little bit better is to bring your DNS control away from your website
host and let it stand alone over here.
And so I'm using a company called Cloudflare.
And let's take a look.
Cloudflare is a great company for controlling the DNS of websites, its Cloudflare dot com.
And when you when you sign up with Cloudflare for one of your domain names, the DNS service is free.
You can use a free DNS service.
They do have paid services, which include some more above and beyond extra services.
But even at this point in my business, I use the Cloudflare free version for controlling the DNS and
pointing the website traffic to the web host.
And so here is an example of I bring it back here.
You can use Cloudflare to control your DNS so you can point the website traffic using in a record and
using, you know, the sea name record to the website, while at the same time pointing email traffic
to an external email host.
Like I've recommended, it's a best practice to host email addresses and email itself at a different
provider from your website.
And so by taking control of the DNS, that is the way that that is controlled.
Let's scroll down a little bit here in the document into the domains and DNS section in my little leverage
WP framework document here, and let's talk about domain names.
So again, the cost associated and then hosted costs for domain names is quite low.
And this is what I wanted to address in this first video about domain names.
After that little introduction, the I'm not using the blue color here because domains are not really
hosted.
You're just renting the domain name and then defining where you want to point the traffic that goes
to that domain name.
And that's where the DNS system comes in.
So I'm suggesting that you use the inexpensive Cloudflare service not only for DNS registration, but
also for domains and domain registration because it's the least expensive.
They have just released out of beta their domain registration system.
And let's just take a look back to the website here and compare.
If you go under any in your Cloudflare account under registrar, you can register, transfer or manage
your domain names there.
And if I just look for a fictitious domain name that I don't own.
Greg Davis websites dot com.
If I look, I can see that I can get a dot com domain name at Cloudflare for eight dollars and fifty
seven cents a month.
Now, one of the big things about Cloudflare and why I recommend them is that not only are they a great
DNS and domain name service company, and they give you a lot of benefits for running your traffic through
their service, even for free.
But now that they are a registered registrar for domain names, they don't mark up the registrations
at all.
They charge you whatever it costs them to register the domain names with internet.
The International Domain Name Registration Authority.
And so if you look at Gray Davis websites, dot com, for example, if I wanted to purchase or rent
this website domain, then I would pay eight seven a month for that.
Now let's compare that to over at GoDaddy.
Now I still do have domains registered at GoDaddy, and I've recommended them in the past because that
is their core expertise as a domain registrar.
And so if I were to look for Greg Davis websites dot com here at the GoDaddy, it's a little bit more
convoluted and you have to kind of navigate what they're doing here for you, but they will give you
this domain name for one penny for the first year as long as you agree with a two year registration.
And then after the first year, the second year is charged at whatever the cost is for.
Dot com domain names and that at Good Eddie is 1899.
So GoDaddy charges eighteen point ninety nine cents per year for dot com domain names, even though
the.
Real cost is 857 with internet for those domain names.
Now you do get your first year for for a penny at dot com domain names.
Here's the 1899, but you are forced to start with a two year registration.
So even if you take advantage of this sale, you're actually still paying a little bit more than you
would be paying for two years at Cloudflare.
Cheap is another domain registrar that is a very well-respected registrar that costs a bit less than
GoDaddy as well.
But at this point, there's nothing better than Cloudflare for domain registration.
And one other thing if you're using Cloudflare anyway for your DNS and controlling the DNS records of
your domain names, then it's just that much easier to register your domain names there, too.
Right now, I'm in the process of transferring all my GoDaddy account domain names over to cloud Cloudflare
before they expire.
It's easy to do, and I'm saving myself about half per year for each domain name.
Now you can see that there's different suggested extensions available as well.
Dot com and Dot Net are some of the most inexpensive extensions, but you can see that Dot online costs
$25 a year.
Dot Lt'd is 15 bucks.
Dot Blog is a $20 per year commitment.
These are all the real costs with no markup when you look under Cloudflare.
And so I would recommend that you register domains and search for them at Cloudflare.
If you already are registering domains and have domains hosted and registered as places like GoDaddy
or at your website host, I would suggest that you look at transferring domains into Cloudflare because
I find that it's it's going to be some of the fastest performance and the most convenient and of course,
most important, the least expensive.